---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Starting Somewhere
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-01-17
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

  World of Warcraft was a huge thing when it initially came out, and the number of people that came to it just increased in the years to come. I was also caught up in that wave, albeit a bit late.  By the time I hit the max level the new expansion was to come out soon. The world that I had explored up this point was vivid and surreal.  The mobs and bosses made each dungeon entertaining, and the player skills made each group unique.  
    In the second and third expansions though, that was when I enjoyed playing the most.  The world was still engaging, however the mods that I had installed along with the abilities that were now available made me question how things could work.  I belonged to a guild where the Guild Master knew the mechanics that were implented in the game and never hesitated to explain even the little things.  This all eventually turned into what we called "shenanigans", things that were crazy, fun, seemed like it shouldn't work, but still did.
    Eventually the pull to play WoW disappeared and sometime later, something I found on youtube caught my eye, AGDQ (Awesome Games Done Quick).  A speed running marathon raising money for a charity of their choice.  In it they ran optimized strats, they used glitches, they deconstructed the games, they made things happened that seemed broken (granted most of them were in a way), and through all of that, they could explain what was happening. They explained how they were manipulating the code and how it affected their runs.  It reminded me of what I enjoyed from playing something like WoW. 
    This reminded me of the "shenanigans" we pulled off in WoW. We understood the mechanics, dissected the encounters, knew what the optimal choices were, and by deconstructing those parts of the game, we made things happen that weren't "normal".  Perhaps all of the time spent in WoW was simply me allowing the part of me that wanted to deconstruct and analyze a world go wild.  Currently, my goal is to get to a point where in the current technological world, I can disassemble, analyze, and recreate, fix, or optimize some kind of code.
